In this video, we'll cover
search by category with an enhanced version.
Currently in our application, our category names
and IDs are static, they're hardcoded.
What I'd like to do is enhance the application
to read the categories from the database
via a REST API.
All right, so here's our development process.
So the first thing is modifying
the Spring Boot app to expose the entity IDs.
Next, we'll create a class for ProductCategory.
Then we'll create a new component for our menu.
Next, we'll enhance our menu component
to read the data from the product service.
And then we'll update the product service
to call the URL on the Spring Boot application.
And then finally, in the HTML,
we'll replace the hard-coded links
with our new menu component.
All righty, step one of modifying
the Spring Boot app.
So by default, Spring Data REST
does not expose entity IDs.
We need this entity ID for a number of use cases.
For example, to get a list of product categories by ID,
and also the master/detail view
to get a given product by ID.
So if we look at the response here
from our REST API, we'll see that
there's no entity ID at the productCategory level.
But actually, the entity ID is embedded
in the HATEOS links.
So if you look closely, it's there.
But there's no easy access.
It requires parsing the URL string.
This approach is cumbersome and brittle.
And it's not really ideal.
We need a better solution.
This is what we need.
I need to have the response from the REST API
to actually include the entity ID
at the productCategory level.
So I have the category ID and also the category name.
That's what I need for easy access.
All righty, so we need to update our
Spring Data REST configuration to expose the entity IDs.
And here's the basic pseudo-code
or algorithm for doing this.
So I need to get a list of all the entity classes
from the entity manager,
and then create an array of the entity types,
and then get the entity types
for each one of the entities.
And then expose the entity IDs for the array
of the entity/domain types.
So here's part one of the coding for this.
So in my Data REST config, we need to auto-wire
the JPA entity manager,
effectively inject the entity manager.
And in this code example,
I'm making use of constructor injection
to inject that JPA entity manager.
And now in our configuration, this method here,
configureRepositoryRestConfiguration,
we're going to call an internal helper method,
called exposeIds, and will pass in the config.
So here's the coding here for exposeIds.
So we'll get a collection of all entity classes
from the entity manager,
and then we'll create an array list of those entity types.
Next, we'll get the entity types for the entities.
So we'll simply do a for loop over those entities
for each tempEntityType, we'll say
getJavaType, and then add that to our entity classes.
So the final step is exposing
the entityIds for the collection
of entity domain types.
So I basically take that collection
of entity classes, and I convert it to array,
so now I have an array of these classes,
or domain types, and then I say config.exposeIdsFor,
and then I pass in those domain types.
And that'll give us our desired output.
And so as you can see here,
once we run our application then,
we have the Entity id at the productCategory level.
So that's our desired approach.
We have the category ID along with the category names.
So this gives us easy access
to that given entity ID.
So this is really good.